So we want to make sure that we're not able to sell more than we have or buy for more than we can afford,
in order to do so, we need some checks, let's start with a check for buying stocks. Here in the stock.vue
file,
right now we never check if we actually can afford our plans,
so in order to do check this, I'll add a new computed property to this,
so computed is added and in there, the name of the property I want to add is insufficient funds,
this is a method like all computed properties
and here I simply want to return this quantity, referring to the quantity I entered into the input field
times this stock, stocks of course passed to this component, price greater this funds.
So I do check if my quantity I plan to buy
multiply with the price of the stock, if this is greater than funds,
so if this is true or false.
And now with this computed property which is true or false, I can go to my button and simply disable it
in if insufficient funds is true
and then add an OR sign to also perform the other checks.
So if this is true, then this bottom will be disabled,
now of course funds isn't available yet, for it to become available,
I again need to add my computed property for that where I return this store getters funds, as we did
it many times before.
Now with this in place, we can check this if we reload the app and enter a too high number, the button
indeed gets disabled.
Now I also want to update the text we see on the button depending on this,
so I'll use interpolation for this
and here, I simply want to check insufficient funds,
great word when you are talking whilst writing
and if this is true, I know I don't have enough so I want to print insufficient funds in this case otherwise
I print buy.
So let's see if that also works,
it should,
yes looks good
how it works, great.
So with that, we're making sure we're getting an error message if we're trying to buy something we can't
afford,
we also may put a red border around the input in such a case,
so let's bind a dynamic class here and let's say this class which I yet have to add is called
danger depends on insufficient funds too
and I will create the class here, style and scope it to this component here, this style is called danger,
this class is called Danger,
it simply will create a red border of one pixel which is solid and yeah red,
so again if I enter too high number here, we do get this red border around the input, looks great.
So with that, we're making sure we cannot buy more than we can afford,
now I also want to make sure that we can sell more than we have,
so over in the stock.vue file in my portfolio module or folder here, I want to perform a kind
of similar check.
I will add the computed field here to add a new computed property which is called insufficient quantity
because now it's not the funds which is the part restricting our action possibility
but instead the quantity we have in our portfolio.
So here I want to return this quantity, so what we entered into the input field and check if it's greater
than the quantity in our stock,
only if this is the case will I want to return that it's not possible because then we're trying to
sell more than we do have,
so if we want to sell more than is in our
portfolio, we'll get, well not an error but we'll disable the button. So I'll disable the button
if insufficient quantity is true or one of the other conditions of course
and in such a case, I also want to output
so check if insufficient quantity is true
and then I want to output not enough stocks, otherwise I will output sell, like this.
And why don't we also copy that scoped style over there to also mark the input as well
wrong
if this is actually the case, so have the same check here, danger is insufficient quantity and danger of
course refers to this class.
So now if I do buy one and I want to sell two,
I get not enough stocks,
it kind of jumps uglyly here I have to admit, simply due to the styling,
so let me maybe just change this to
not enough to have a quick fix at hand, looks better and I can sell one stock of course,
zero is not allowed because it's too less but one does work.
So now we get these checks in place, we're able to sell our stocks and buy if the funds get updated,
everything seems to work great.
The next thing is a minor thing but the funds, if we look at them, it works but it's not looking great,
it would be nice to have a dollar sign and form it is more like a currency.
So next challenge for you, maybe a filter is helpful here,
let's try building it together in the next video.